README.rst, before:

Configuration Tool for 3Dconnexion CadMouse
-------------------------------------------

Since 3Dconnexion does not have any open-source tool to change firmware
settings for their CadMouse device, I have reverse engineered its configuration
protocol by looking at USB captures from a Windows VM running its settings tool.

Compilation
===========

This needs HIDApi.

Linux
~~~~~

``cc cadmousectl.c -o cadmousectl $(pkg-config --cflags --libs hidapi-hidraw)``

Windows, macOS, \*BSD, …
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``cc cadmousectl.c -o cadmousectl $(pkg-config --cflags --libs hidapi)``


Usage
=====

This tool needs write access to the USB device. The mouse loses its settings
each time it is disconnected. Therefore, you will probably want to set up
``cadmousectl`` to run automatically. Each rules file needs to be modified
as necessary (the path to ``cadmousectl`` and the parameters).

Linux
~~~~~

Copy the ``rules/linux/99-cadmouse.rules`` file into ``/etc/udev/rules.d``
and reload ``udevd``.

FreeBSD
~~~~~~~

Copy the ``rules/freebsd/cadmouse.conf`` file into ``/usr/local/etc/devd``
and reload ``devd``.

Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~

cadmousectl [-[lprsS] value]

+--------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| Option | Effect                                                  |
+========+=========================================================+
| -l     | Enable (non-zero) or disable (zero) lift-off detection. |
+--------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| -p     | Set polling rate (125, 250, 500, 1000).                 |
+--------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| -r     | Remap buttons. Format is real_button:assigned_button.   |
|        |                                                         |
|        | Values for real_button:                                 |
|        |     left, right, middle, wheel, forward, backward, rm   |
|        |                                                         |
|        | Values for assigned_button:                             |
|        |     left, right, middle, backward, forward, rm, extra   |
|        |                                                         |
|        | .. note::                                               |
|        |     The extra button was discovered by accident.        |
|        |     Using this, you can assign an additional button to  |
|        |     the wheel click. It will have id 11 on X11.         |
+--------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| -s     | Set speed (1-164).                                      |
|        |                                                         |
|        | Cannot be used with -d                                  |
+--------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| -d     | Set speed in DPI (50-8200).                             |
|        |                                                         |
|        | Cannot be used with -s                                  |
+--------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| -S     | Set Smart Scroll mode. There are two additional modes   |
|        | which the Windows GUI does not expose.                  |
|        |                                                         |
|        | 0                                                       |
|        |     off                                                 |
|        | 1                                                       |
|        |     normal                                              |
|        | 2                                                       |
|        |     slow                                                |
|        | 3                                                       |
|        |     accelerated scrolling                               |
|        |                                                         |
|        | Accelerated scrolling mode is different from the other  |
|        | modes in that it does not simulate a flywheel but       |
|        | instead sends more scroll wheel clicks the faster you   |
|        | scroll.                                                 |
+--------+---------------------------------------------------------+

License
=======

This software is available under the terms of the ISC license as it appears
in each source file.

Commit message:

README: Add note about Windows Releases

README.rst, after:

Configuration Tool for 3Dconnexion CadMouse
-------------------------------------------

Since 3Dconnexion does not have any open-source tool to change firmware
settings for their CadMouse device, I have reverse engineered its configuration
protocol by looking at USB captures from a Windows VM running its settings tool.

Compilation
===========

This needs HIDApi.

Linux
~~~~~

``cc cadmousectl.c -o cadmousectl $(pkg-config --cflags --libs hidapi-hidraw)``

Windows, macOS, \*BSD, …
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Windows builds are availabe on the GitHub Releases page.

``cc cadmousectl.c -o cadmousectl $(pkg-config --cflags --libs hidapi)``


Usage
=====

This tool needs write access to the USB device. The mouse loses its settings
each time it is disconnected. Therefore, you will probably want to set up
``cadmousectl`` to run automatically. Each rules file needs to be modified
as necessary (the path to ``cadmousectl`` and the parameters).

Linux
~~~~~

Copy the ``rules/linux/99-cadmouse.rules`` file into ``/etc/udev/rules.d``
and reload ``udevd``.

FreeBSD
~~~~~~~

Copy the ``rules/freebsd/cadmouse.conf`` file into ``/usr/local/etc/devd``
and reload ``devd``.

Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~

cadmousectl [-[lprsS] value]

+--------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| Option | Effect                                                  |
+========+=========================================================+
| -l     | Enable (non-zero) or disable (zero) lift-off detection. |
+--------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| -p     | Set polling rate (125, 250, 500, 1000).                 |
+--------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| -r     | Remap buttons. Format is real_button:assigned_button.   |
|        |                                                         |
|        | Values for real_button:                                 |
|        |     left, right, middle, wheel, forward, backward, rm   |
|        |                                                         |
|        | Values for assigned_button:                             |
|        |     left, right, middle, backward, forward, rm, extra   |
|        |                                                         |
|        | .. note::                                               |
|        |     The extra button was discovered by accident.        |
|        |     Using this, you can assign an additional button to  |
|        |     the wheel click. It will have id 11 on X11.         |
+--------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| -s     | Set speed (1-164).                                      |
|        |                                                         |
|        | Cannot be used with -d                                  |
+--------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| -d     | Set speed in DPI (50-8200).                             |
|        |                                                         |
|        | Cannot be used with -s                                  |
+--------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| -S     | Set Smart Scroll mode. There are two additional modes   |
|        | which the Windows GUI does not expose.                  |
|        |                                                         |
|        | 0                                                       |
|        |     off                                                 |
|        | 1                                                       |
|        |     normal                                              |
|        | 2                                                       |
|        |     slow                                                |
|        | 3                                                       |
|        |     accelerated scrolling                               |
|        |                                                         |
|        | Accelerated scrolling mode is different from the other  |
|        | modes in that it does not simulate a flywheel but       |
|        | instead sends more scroll wheel clicks the faster you   |
|        | scroll.                                                 |
+--------+---------------------------------------------------------+

License
=======

This software is available under the terms of the ISC license as it appears
in each source file.
